# FloppyMC
A set of Monte Carlo codes for doing Monte Carlo simulations in isothermal isobaric ensemble (NPT-MC)

 FloppyMC codes can be used to study the temperature and pressure effect on organic molecular crystals and has been developed by myself during my Ph.D in Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. I would like to greatly acknowledge Prof. S. Yashonath, IISc and Dr. Anil Kumar, NISER for useful discussions in preparing this code. It can peform Monte Carlo simulation in isothermarl-isobaric ensemble for molecular crystals. The code includes features to use a flexible molecular model for floppy molecules by explicitly incorporating the low frequency large amplitude modes and so in addition to
thermal and pressure effect on the crystal structure, packing, the molecular structure and conformational changes can be studied. The pressure and dependent studies carried out on a number of flexible organic molecules such as biphenyl, p-terphenyl, stilbene, and 4-vinyl benzoic acid could explain the microscopic origin of a number of phase transitions reported
in these molecular crystals based on experimental IR, Raman spectra, X-ray diffraction and calorimetric studies. Possible explanations for the temperature-induced anomalous bond length shrinkage in 4-vinyl benzoic acid has been obtained based on its temperature dependent average molecular geometry and a set of ab initio constrained optimizations (refer to Murugan, JCP, 123, 094508(2005)). In molecular crystals of stilbene and adamantane the nature of conformational disorder and molecular geometry has been reported to be dependent on the specific crystallographic site (refer to Murugan, et al., JPCB, 109, 17296(2005)
and Murugan et al., JPCB 109, 12107(2005)) which is yet to be verified from experiments. 
